README.md, before:

## trello2kanboard

An attempt to read Trello boards via API and write them to Kanboard (also via API).

### Quick start

  - Install the required gems with bundler: `bundle install`
  - Copy config/trello2kanboard.yml.sample to config/trello2kanboard.yml and add options for your various API keys as well as your Kanboard server address.
  - List the boards that you have access to on both systems: `bundle exec trello2kanboard list`
  - See a board you'd like to import? `bundle exec trello2kanboard import f00b4r123 22`. The first is your Trello board ID, the second the ID of the board to import to on Kanboard. trello2kanboard will create any columns it finds in Trello with the same names in Kanboard, if they don't exist already.


### Configuration

Here's a commented version of config/trello2kanboard.yml:

```yaml
---
trello:
  developer_public_key: # Your developer public key for Trello goes here
  member_token: # And this is for your member token

kanboard:
  host: somehost.example.com # The hostname (just the hostname!) of your Kanboard instance 
  path: jsonrpc.php  # The path to jsonrpc.php on the Kanboard server
  api_token: # Your Kanboard API token
  user_map:  # A map of Trello usernames and which Kanboard users they match
    trellouser1: kanboarduser1
    trellouser2: surprisingkanboarduser
```


### Usage

You probably have to prefix all these commands with `bundle exec` if you installed the Ruby gems locally using bundler. So whenever it says `trello2kanboard list`, think `bundle exec trello2kanboard list`.


#### Listing boards on both systems

`trello2kanboard list` shows a list of Trello board your developer key/member token has access to, as well as a list of all existing projects in Kanboard. This is useful so you know the IDs to import from/to on both sides. If you don't see a specific board in the Trello list, whoever is in charge of permissions for that Trello board needs to give your Trello user permission to see it.

#### Importing boards from Trello to Kanboard

`trello2kanboard import f00b4r1234 15` would import the Trello board with ID f00b4r1234 into the Kanboard project with ID 15. It will aggressively create any columns in Kanboard that exist in Trello. It will refuse to create Kanboard tasks that already exist, but other than that it does not much checking.

It imports tasks in exactly the same order as they are in Trello.


### Caveats

  * Make absolutely sure that the Kanboard users you mention in trello2kanboard.yml have permission on the respective Kanboard projects. If they don't have permission, weird errors will pop up when trello2kanboard tries to assign comments and tasks to these people.
  * You can rerun trello2kanboard if some tasks have failed to import (e.g. because the user didn't have permissions), and trello2kanboard will skip creating tasks that already exist. So if you've successfully imported a task but the import failed because one of its comments mapped to a user without permission in Kanboard, you will have to delete the task in Kanboard, give the user permission and then run trello2kanboard again. Only this way, importing the failed comments will be attempted again.
  * If a column is empty in Trello, it won't be created in Kanboard either.

### Contributing

Error handling is atrocious and mostly non-present, so if you wanted to write something in that direction, it would make everyone smile. Also, testing. If anyone wants to e.g. record correct requests and responses using [VCR](https://github.com/vcr/vcr) or something and write tests for them, that'd be fun as well. Just go ahead and submit pull requests.

Commit message:

More robust attachment handling, feature for fallback user for comments

README.md, after:

## trello2kanboard

An attempt to read Trello boards via API and write them to Kanboard (also via API).

### Quick start

  - Install the required gems with bundler: `bundle install`
  - Copy config/trello2kanboard.yml.sample to config/trello2kanboard.yml and add options for your various API keys as well as your Kanboard server address.
  - List the boards that you have access to on both systems: `bundle exec trello2kanboard list`
  - See a board you'd like to import? `bundle exec trello2kanboard import f00b4r123 22`. The first is your Trello board ID, the second the ID of the board to import to on Kanboard. trello2kanboard will create any columns it finds in Trello with the same names in Kanboard, if they don't exist already.


### Configuration

Here's a commented version of config/trello2kanboard.yml:

```yaml
---
trello:
  developer_public_key: # Your developer public key for Trello goes here
  member_token: # And this is for your member token

kanboard:
  host: somehost.example.com # The hostname (just the hostname!) of your Kanboard instance 
  path: jsonrpc.php  # The path to jsonrpc.php on the Kanboard server
  api_token: # Your Kanboard API token
  comment_fallback_user_id: # For comments whose users don't exist in Kanboard
  user_map:  # A map of Trello usernames and which Kanboard users they match
    trellouser1: kanboarduser1
    trellouser2: surprisingkanboarduser
```

#### Details about configuration

**kanboard.comment_fallback_user_id:** Sometimes a Trello user has left your organization and is unable to log into your Kanboard instance. But Kanboard demands a user_id for every comment. To solve this, you can create a fallback user in Kanboard (e.g. called "A former Trello user"). Any comments whose users don't exist in Kanboard will be assigned to this user. The original Trello username will be added to the comment text itself in this case, so that you can at least trace the comment's origin back to the Trello user.

### Usage

You probably have to prefix all these commands with `bundle exec` if you installed the Ruby gems locally using bundler. So whenever it says `trello2kanboard list`, think `bundle exec trello2kanboard list`.


#### Listing boards on both systems

`trello2kanboard list` shows a list of Trello board your developer key/member token has access to, as well as a list of all existing projects in Kanboard. This is useful so you know the IDs to import from/to on both sides. If you don't see a specific board in the Trello list, whoever is in charge of permissions for that Trello board needs to give your Trello user permission to see it.

#### Importing boards from Trello to Kanboard

`trello2kanboard import f00b4r1234 15` would import the Trello board with ID f00b4r1234 into the Kanboard project with ID 15. It will aggressively create any columns in Kanboard that exist in Trello. It will refuse to create Kanboard tasks that already exist, but other than that it does not much checking.

It imports tasks in exactly the same order as they are in Trello.


### Caveats

  * Make absolutely sure that the Kanboard users you mention in trello2kanboard.yml have permission on the respective Kanboard projects. If they don't have permission, weird errors will pop up when trello2kanboard tries to assign comments and tasks to these people.
  * You can rerun trello2kanboard if some tasks have failed to import (e.g. because the user didn't have permissions), and trello2kanboard will skip creating tasks that already exist. So if you've successfully imported a task but the import failed because one of its comments mapped to a user without permission in Kanboard, you will have to delete the task in Kanboard, give the user permission and then run trello2kanboard again. Only this way, importing the failed comments will be attempted again.
  * If a column is empty in Trello, it won't be created in Kanboard either.

### Contributing

Error handling is atrocious and mostly non-present, so if you wanted to write something in that direction, it would make everyone smile. Also, testing. If anyone wants to e.g. record correct requests and responses using [VCR](https://github.com/vcr/vcr) or something and write tests for them, that'd be fun as well. Just go ahead and submit pull requests.
